
<!-- image -->

State Capitol P.O. Box 2062 Albany, NY 12220-0062 www.its.ny.gov


| New York State  Information Technology Standard   | No:  NYS-S14-005                                                            |
|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ITS Standard                                      | :  Updated:  06/27/2024                                                     |
|                                                   | Security Logging Issued By:  NYS Office of Information  Technology Services |

## 1.0 Purpose and Benefits

Security logs are records that contain information related to a specific event that has occurred within an organization's systems or networks. Security logs contain computer security-related information, such as audit logs that track user authentication attempts and user actions, and security device logs that record possible attacks.

Security logs are generated by many sources, including but not limited to: security software and firewalls; intrusion detection and prevention systems; databases; applications; and operating systems (OS) on servers, workstations, and networking equipment. The monitoring of logs allows authorized staff to identify security incidents, policy violations, fraudulent activity, and operational problems. This standard defines requirements for security log generation, management, retention, disposal, access, and use.

## 2.0 Authority

Section 103(10) of the State Technology Law provides the Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) with the authority to establish statewide technology policies, including technology and security standards. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 117 1 , issued January 2002, provides the State Chief Information Officer with the authority to oversee, direct and coordinate the establishment of information technology policies,

protocols and standards for State government, including hardware, software, security and business re-engineering. Details regarding this authority can be found in NYS ITS Policy, NYS-P08-002 Authority to Establish State Enterprise Information Technology (IT) Policy, Standards and Guidelines .

## 3.0 Scope

This standard applies to all "State Entities" (SE), defined as "State Government" in Executive Order 117 or "State Agencies" as defined in Section 101 of the State Technology Law. This includes employees and all third parties (such as local governments, consultants, vendors, and contractors) that use or access any IT resource for which the SE or ITS has administrative responsibility, including systems managed or hosted by third parties on behalf of the SE or ITS. While an SE may adopt a different standard, it must include the requirements set forth in this one. Where a conflict exists between this standard and an SE's standard, the more restrictive standard will take precedence.

## 4.0 Information Statement

Security logs must be generated in information technology (IT) systems and networks. Due to the nature of the data contained in security logs, they are considered Personal, Private, or Sensitive Information (PPSI) with a minimum confidentiality and integrity classification of moderate and must be protected as such per the NYS-S14-002 Information Classification Standard.

## 4.1 Initial Log Generation

b. All security events (Appendix A) must be logged and must be set to capture significant levels of detail.

a. All hosts and networking equipment must perform security log generation for all components (e.g., OS, service, application, database).

## 4.2 Log Administration

b. When non-revolving log storage reaches 90% capacity, a warning must be issued.

a. All hosts and networking equipment must issue alerts on security log processing failures, such as software/hardware errors, failures in the log capturing mechanisms, and log storage capacity being reached or exceeded. All alerts must be as close to real-time as possible.

## 4.3 Log Consolidation

a. Security-related information from all systems, except for individual workstations, must be transferred to a consolidated log infrastructure. Systems

b. running workstation OSs that are used for shared services, such as shared file storage or web services, must also satisfy these requirements.

c. When required, workstations must have the ability to transfer logs to a consolidated log infrastructure.

e. SEs must implement and document processes for the establishment, operation, and, as appropriate, integration of log management systems.

d. Security log data must be transferred in real-time from individual hosts to a consolidated log infrastructure. Where real-time transfer is not possible, the security log data must be transferred from the individual hosts to a consolidated log infrastructure as quickly as the technology allows.

## 4.4 Log Retention and Disposal

b. Security log data must be securely disposed of (at both the system and the infrastructure level) in compliance with the NYS-S13-003 Sanitization/Secure Disposal Standard.

a. Within the consolidated log infrastructure, security logs must be maintained and readily available for a minimum of one year. Based on SE requirements, including audit or legal requirements, security logs may need to be retained for a longer period of time.

c. Systems that collect security logs, whether local or consolidated, must maintain sufficient storage space to meet the minimum requirements for both readily available and retained security logs. Storage planning must account for increases in log activity and storage requirements that could reasonably be expected to result from system issues, including security incidents.

e. Security log integrity for consolidated log infrastructure needs to be preserved. Examples include, but are not limited to, storing security logs on write-once media or generating message digests for each log file.

d. A process must be put in place to provide for security log preservation requests, such as a legal requirement to prevent the alteration and destruction of particular security log records (e.g., how the impacted security logs must be marked, stored, and protected).

## 4.5 Log Access and Use

b. Security log data must be initially analyzed as close to real time as possible.

a. Access to log management systems must be recorded and must be limited to individuals with a specific need for access to the security logs. Access to security log data must be limited to the specific sets of data appropriate for the business need per the NYS-S14-013 Account Management Access Control Standard.

c. Procedures must exist for managing unusual events identified through security log analysis. Any corresponding response must be commensurate with system criticality, data sensitivity, and regulatory requirements.

## 5.0 Compliance

This standard shall take effect upon publication. Compliance is required with all enterprise policies and standards. ITS may amend its policies and standards at any time; compliance with amended policies and standards is required.

If compliance with this standard is not feasible or technically possible, or if deviation from this policy is necessary to support a business function, SEs must request an exception through the Chief Information Security Office exception process.

## 6.0 Definitions of Key Terms

Except for terms defined in this policy, all terms shall have the meanings found in http://www.its.ny.gov/glossary.

## 7.0 Contact Information

Submit all inquiries and requests for future enhancements to the policy owner at:

Chief Information Security Office Reference: NYS-S14-005 NYS Office of Information Technology Services 1220 Washington Avenue, Building 5 Albany, NY 12226 Telephone: (518) 242-5200

Email: CISO@its.ny.gov

Statewide technology policies, standards, and guidelines may be found at the following website: https://its.ny.gov/policies

## 8.0 Revision History

This policy document should be reviewed consistent with the requirements set forth in NYS-P08-002 Authority to Establish State Enterprise Information Technology (IT) Policy, Standards and Guidelines.


| Date       | Description of Change                                                                                                                    | Reviewer                                              |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| 02/21/2014 | Original Standard Release;  replaces ITS S11-  001 Security Monitor and Logging and  CSCIC/OCS S10-005 Monitoring System  Access and Use | Thomas D. Smith,  Chief Information  Security Officer |


| Date       | Description of Change                                                                                                          | Reviewer                                                                                                                                                                     |
|------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 02/20/2015 | Standard Review; no changes                                                                                                    | Deborah A.  Snyder, Deputy  Chief  Information  Security Officer                                                                                                             |
|            | Deborah A.  Snyder, Deputy  Chief  Information  Security Officer                                                               | 02/21/2017  Update to Scope, contact information and  rebranding                                                                                                             |
| 09/13/2018 | Scheduled review - minor wording changes  and minor update to Authority, Scope, and  Deborah A.  Information  Security Officer | title of  office  Snyder, Chief                                                                                                                                              |
| 11/23/2021 | Scheduled review                                                                                                               | Chief Information  Security Officer                                                                                                                                          |
| 06/27/2024 | Chris Desain,  Chief Information  Security Officer                                                                             | Revised Section 1.0 Purpose and Benefits for  clarity, changed header referencing "Log  Storage & Disposal" to "Log Retention &  Disposal", changed requirements to maintain |

## 9.0 Related Documents

NIST Special Publication 800-92, Guide to Computer Security Log Management NIST SP 800-92 Rev. 1 (Initial Public Draft), Cybersecurity Log Management Planning Guide

## Appendix A: Security Events to Log

Security events that must be logged for all systems include but are not limited to:

1. Successful and unsuccessful authentication events including but not limited to:

account or user-ID;

· system logon/logoff;

· change of password;

· an indication of success or failure of the event;

the type of event;

the date and time of the event; and

· identification of the source of the event such as location, IP addresses terminal ID, or other means of identification.

2. Successful and unsuccessful privileged operations including but not limited to:

· system starts and stops;

· use of system privileged accounts;

hardware attachments and detachments;

· security events - account/group management and policy changes.

· system and network management alerts and errors messages; and

3. Successful and unsuccessful access to security log files including but not limited to:

the type of event;

· account or user-ID;

· an indication of success or failure of the event;

· identification of the source of the event such as location, IP address, terminal ID, or other means of identification.

the date and time of the event; and

4. Unsuccessful resource access events will be logged to include at a minimum:

· the type of event;

· account or user-ID;

an indication of the event;

the resource; and

· the date and time of the event;

· identification of the source of the event such as location, IP addresses terminal ID, or other means of identification.

5. For systems identified as critical based on an SE risk assessment or systems that have not yet been classified, in addition to the above, successful resource access events will be logged to include at a minimum:

the type of event;

· account or user-ID;

· an indication of the event;

· the resource; and

the date and time of the event;

identification of the source of the event such as location, IP addresses terminal ID, or other means of identification.

Most web servers offer the option to store log files in either the common log format or an extended log format. The extended log format records more information than the common log file format. When technically feasible, web servers must use the extended log format. The extended log format adds valuable logging information to your log file so you can determine where messages are coming from, who is sending the message, and adds information to the log file that would be necessary to trace an attack.