
<!-- image -->

State Capitol P.O. Box 2062 Albany, NY 12220-0062 www.its.ny.gov

$^{ }$


| New York State Information TechnologyStandard   | No:   NYS-S15-003                                                                                    |
|-------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| IT Standard :                                   | Updated:  11/23/2021                                                                                 |
| 802.11 Wireless  Network Security               | Issued By:  NYS Office of Information  Technology Services  Owner: Chief Information Security Office |

## 1.0 Purpose and Benefits

The purpose of this standard is to establish controls for 802.11 wireless networks in order to minimize risks to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of State Entity's (SE) information and to support secure access to such information and State Information Technology Resources and services over SE wireless networks.

802.11 wireless networks enable users of wireless devices the flexibility to physically move throughout a wireless environment while maintaining connectivity to the network. While 802.11 wireless networks are exposed to many of the same risks as wired networks, they are also exposed to additional risks unique to wireless technologies. This standard outlines the additional controls required for the use of wireless networks by SEs.

## 2.0 Authority

Section 103(10) of the State Technology Law provides the Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) with the authority to establish statewide technology policies, including technology and security standards. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 117 1 , issued January 2002, provides the State Chief Information Officer with the authority to oversee, direct and coordinate the establishment of information technology policies, protocols and standards for State government, including hardware, software, security

and business re-engineering. Details regarding this authority can be found in NYS ITS Policy, NYS-P08-002 Authority to Establish State Enterprise Information Technology (IT) Policy, Standards and Guidelines .

## 3.0 Scope

This standard applies to all "State Entities" ("SE"), defined as "State Government" entities in Executive Order 117 or "State Agencies" as defined in Section 101 of the State Technology Law. This includes employees and all other third parties (such as local governments, consultants, vendors, and contractors), that use or access any ITS Information Technology Resource for which ITS has administrative responsibility, including systems managed or hosted by third parties on behalf of the ITS. While an SE may adopt a different standard, it must include the requirements set forth in this one.

This standard applies to all 802.11 wireless networks that store, process, or transmit SE information or connect to an SE network or system, including networks managed and hosted by third parties on behalf of the State.

The types of 802.11 wireless networks in scope include:

· Internal - these SE wireless networks are directly connected to the State's internal Information Technology Resources and are only available to authenticated users.

· Public (authenticated) - these SE wireless networks are not connected to the State's internal Information Technology Resources and access is limited to authenticated users.

· Public (non-authenticated) - these SE wireless networks are not connected to the State's internal Information Technology Resources and are available for anyone to use without authentication.

## 4.0 Information Statement

1. 802.11 wireless networks must follow all requirements of the NYS-P03-002 NYS Information Security Policy including, but not limited to, a risk assessment prior to implementation.

2. All wireless installations must be authorized by the management of the SE whose information will traverse the wireless network.

3. Security plan documentation, as required by the NYS-S15-003 Secure System Development Lifecycle Standard, must include, at a minimum, the SE name, all Access Point (AP) locations, all supporting wireless infrastructure locations, the subnet on the wired network, and the Service Set Identifier (SSID).

4. APs and other supporting wireless devices must be placed in physically protected locations that minimize the opportunity for theft, damage, or unauthorized access.

5. Wireless network coverage must be managed to restrict the ability to connect outside of the SE-approved boundary.

6. The SSID of 802.11 wireless networks must be changed from the factory default setting.

7. The SSID must not include information that indicates the location, technology, or manufacturer details of the wireless network (e.g., Server-Rm-WiFi-Access, WifiRm70 and Cisco-2400-WiFi). The SSID also must not include information that indicates the type of data traversing the network.

8. A wireless Intrusion Detection System (IDS) must be utilized on all SE internal wireless networks.

9. Public wireless networks (authenticated and non-authenticated) must be, at a minimum, physically separated from the internal wireless network or configured to tunnel to a secure endpoint outside the internal wireless network. The design must be included in the documented security plan.

10. Logical addressing schemas must be used for public wireless (authenticated and non-authenticated), internal wireless, and wired networks in order to effectively distinguish client connections between them.

11. While servers and information stores may be accessible over a wireless network, they must not directly connect to any wireless network.

12. APs on public authenticated or internal wireless networks must be configured to provide the strongest encryption settings available. At a minimum, Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) 2 - Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) must be utilized.

13. WPA2 personal mode must not be used for SE internal wireless networks.

14. WPA2 personal mode, with Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPS) disabled, may be used for public authenticated access points that do not connect to SE internal wireless networks.

15. APs which utilize passphrases (such as APs configured to use WPA2 personal mode) must use passphrases that conform to the NYS Authentication Tokens Standard and must be at least 14 characters in length and changed at a minimum every six months.

16. Passphrases used by APs must be changed from the factory default setting.

17. Administrative access to any wireless network devices (APs, routers, etc.) must not be allowed from any wireless network. All administrative access must be done via the wired network.

18. 802.1X authentication, specifically the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP), must be used for all devices connecting to SE internal wireless networks. SEs must use the EAP-TLS (Transport Layer Security) method whenever possible. Use of

Lightweight EAP (LEAP) or any of the following EAP authentication mechanisms is not allowed: EAP-MD5 (Message Digest), EAP-OTP (One Time Password), and EAP-GTC (Generic Token Card).

19. Wireless devices that connect to SE internal wireless networks must be configured to validate certificates issued by the authentication server during the authentication process.

20. Wireless devices must be configured to utilize identity privacy settings during the authentication process, where technically feasible.

21. Individual user authentication is required for SE internal wireless networks, in accordance with the NYS-S14-006 Authentication Tokens Standard.

## 5.0 Compliance

This standard shall take effect upon publication. Compliance is required with all enterprise policies and standards. ITS may amend its policies and standards at any time; compliance with amended policies and standards is required.

If compliance with this standard is not feasible or technically possible, or if deviation from this policy is necessary to support a business function, State Entities shall request an exception through the Chief Information Security Office exception process.

## 6.0 Definitions of Key Terms

Except for terms defined in this policy, all terms shall have the meanings found in http://www.its.ny.gov/glossary.


| Term               | Definition                                                                                                                                             |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Access Point  (AP) | A hardware device or a computer's software that acts as a  communication hub for users of a wireless device to connect to a  wired Local Area Network. |

## 7.0 Contact Information

Submit all inquiries and requests for future enhancements to the policy owner at:

Chief Information Security Office Reference: NYS-S15-003 NYS Office of Information Technology Services 1220 Washington Avenue, Building 5 Albany, NY 12226

Telephone: (518) 242-5200

Email: CISO@its.ny.gov

Statewide technology policies, standards, and guidelines may be found at the following website: http://www.its.ny.gov/tables/technologypolicyindex

## 8.0 Revision History

This standard shall be reviewed at least once every year to ensure relevancy.


| Date$_{  }$                                                                         | Description of Change                                                      | Reviewer   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|
|                                                                                     | Original Standard Release  Deborah A.                                      | 05/15/2015 |
| Update to Scope, contact information and  rebranding                                | Security Officer  Deborah A.  Snyder, Deputy  Chief Information            | 02/15/2017 |
| Scheduled review - minor change to Authority,  Scope, and title of office           | Security Officer  Deborah A.  Snyder, Chief  Information  Security Officer | 09/11/2018 |
| Scheduled review - minor changes for  clarification and updated Authority and Scope | Karen A. Sorady,  Chief Information  Security Officer                      | 11/23/2021 |

## 9.0 Related Documents

NYS IT Standard - S14-009 - NYS Mobile Device Security Standard

NYS IT Standard - S14-007 - NYS Encryption Standard

NIST Special Publication - 800-97 - Establishing Wireless Robust Security Networks: A Guide to IEEE 802.11i

NIST Special Publication - 800-153 - Guidelines for Securing Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs)