路 PIN or password: Application access may require entering identifying information such as ID number, name, or "shared secret" (known to both the user and the system), such as PIN and/or password. The system confirms the PIN/password is associated with that person and "authenticates" them. 2 The level of security varies depending on the transaction's risk or value. Low risk/low value transactions may require minimal, often unverified identifying information, while for higher risk transactions the application sponsor might only issue a PIN after an ID process applying rigorous personal information verification procedures.

路 Digitized Signature: A graphical image of a handwritten signature, often used in face-to-face consumer credit card transactions with the signature rarely validated, sometimes created using a special computer input device such as digital pen and pad. Signature validation may compare the digitized signature representation with a stored copy. This has similar security issues as PIN or password, as the digitized signature is another form of shared secret known both to the person and to the system. Forging digitized signatures can be more difficult than forging paper signatures as the technology comparing the submitted signature image with the known signature image is more accurate than the human eye.

路 Signature Dynamics: In this digitized signature variation each pen stroke is measured (e.g., duration, pen pressure, size of loops, etc.), creating a metric to compare to a reference value created earlier, thus authenticating the person signing. These measurements can be combined with techniques used to create a digital signature, ensuring document integrity and more reliable signer authentication.

路 Biometrics: Unique physical characteristics can be converted into digital form interpreted by a computer. 3 A microphone, optical reader, or other device

measures the biometric, comparing it to a profile of one authenticated and stored beforehand. With software acceptance of a match, the transaction may proceed. Improving biometric applications may provide high authentication levels but are not foolproof and may result in false positives or negatives. 4