The employing agency must submit immediate offboarding requests within twenty-four (24) hours, or earlier if possible. After submission, the applicable ITS Client Relationship Manager ("CRM") must be separately informed of the request for immediate offboarding if the separating User is from a Client Agency.

**3** Emergency : This type of offboarding is due to User termination or a separation in which there is a potential risk to the agency if all access is not immediately disabled. The employing agency must get approval for these requests from their agency's Chief Legal Officer and must forward the requests to the ITS EES team shared mailbox at its.sm.ees@its.ny.gov for action. These offboarding requests cannot be processed through ITSM. Emergency offboarding can be scheduled with the ITS EES team if access termination is required outside of normal business hours (8A - 5P, Monday through Friday). Any requests outside of normal business hours will be handled on a "best-effort basis" until the following business day. Once the offboarding is complete, the employing agency must submit an offboarding request via utilizing ITSM and searching "Employee Offboarding" for tracking and equipment retrieval purposes.

## **4.2 Legal Obligations and the Attestation Clause**

Once a User is offboarded the employing agency will no longer have access to the User's home drive or mobile device data. Home drive data will be purged in accordance with ITS-P21-005, Offboarding and Automatic Deprovisioning of Mailbox and Home drive(s). An offboarding will not affect legal holds placed on a user's account(s) in the O365 eDiscovery solution.