Only authorized personnel acting in their official capacity may communicate on public SE social media sites on behalf of the SE, and may do so only pursuant to an established content approval process. Personnel are authorized when approved by the SE's Executive management (see Section 4.2). Content posted on any SE social media site (whether public or internal-facing) must comply with all applicable Federal and State laws, regulations, and policies as well as any terms of use and terms of service applicable to the social media site being used. All SE posts shall be consistent with the SE's social media use disclaimer ( see Section 4.1.3 below for further discussion of social media use disclaimers). The SE, with the advice of the SE's legal counsel, should oversee content management of social media sites.

## **4.1.3 Social Media Use Disclaimer**

A "Social Media Use Disclaimer" outlines the expectations of all those using a specific social media technology, whether a member of the State workforce or an external user. For example, many social media tools generate advertisements for third party websites and applications as a source of revenue. SEs must develop and post or link to a disclaimer in a prominent location on each of its social media web pages. All disclaimers must be approved by the SE's legal counsel prior to being posted. The following is an example of a social media disclaimer:

## **Statewide Social Media Use Disclaimer**

Thank you for visiting [AGENCY] on [SITE]. New York State agencies' social media sites are hosted by third-party platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and X (formerly known as Twitter) , which maintain their own terms of service (TOS), terms of use, privacy policies or other rules governing the use of these sites. Information (e.g., photos, videos, graphics, messages, etc.) you share with or post to New York State agencies' social media sites may be used by the owners of the host site for their own purposes pursuant to their TOS. For more information, consult the host website's TOS.

New York State may also host its own social media sites, whose site-specific TOS govern your use of those sites. You agree that any information you post on a New York State social media site is irrevocably and permanently licensed to New York State and may be treated by the State as public information subject to disclosure to third parties and to records retention requirements. If a copyright is indicated on a video, photo, graphic or other material, permission to use the material must be obtained from the original source of the material prior to posting and you must provide appropriate credit to the source as required by law and/or regulation. You

acknowledge that the [AGENCY] may prohibit or remove comments or posts that, in the [AGENCY'S] judgment, violate State and/or Federal law or the [AGENCY'S] applicable terms of use. In addition, the [AGENCY] can prohibit commercial endorsements.