· Microchip Devices: While not a separate e-signature approach in itself, using an embedded microchip generating, storing, and/or processing data for identification (such as small plastic smart cards, USB drives, or chipped watches/phones), these can support various authentication and e-signature approaches. The device is read contact-less by a radio frequency reader or inserted into a computer or network microchip detector. The device's chip is read by security software once the person enters a PIN, password, or biometric identifier, providing greater security than using a PIN alone, as it requires both physical possession of the smart card and knowledge of the PIN. The PIN, password, or biometric identifier is a secret shared between the person and the microchip device, not between the user and a computer. Microchip devices can be used to further augment the security of a shared secret approach to e-signatures or used in combination with digital signatures.

· Hybrid, and New Approaches: Hybrid solutions combine techniques to increase security, authentication, record integrity, and non-repudiation of less secure esigning methods. A solution might use improved signature-capture techniques combined with click wrap, PINs, and password approaches, while another might use click wrap to encrypt a signature object within read-only document. Esignature solutions requiring high levels of security and non-repudiation might combine the strong authentication of a one-time password token with hashing techniques. Responding to changes in the market, legal, or fiscal environments, new approaches are continually developed. Commercially offered e-signature solutions have matured, with several available that may be compatible with ESRA.