**9** Employees who are victims of domestic violence or gender-based violence who separate from a covered family member due to an incident or incidents of domestic or gender-based violence shall be allowed to make reasonable changes in benefits at any time during the calendar year, where possible and in accordance with statute, regulation, contract, and policy.

**8** Employers should be aware that there may be occurrences when an employee is absent due to incidents of domestic or gender-based violence where they are unable to follow ITS protocol to report the absence. In that situation, the employee may lack documentation, may be unable to obtain documentation or may not want to share documentation containing confidential information. An employer may not require the disclosure of confidential information relating to an absence from work due to domestic violence, a sexual offense, stalking, or human trafficking, as a condition of providing sick leave.

**10** ITS recognizes that victims of domestic and gender-based violence may experience temporary work performance difficulties or be unable to complete certain job aspects because of safety reasons. (Examples include overnight travel, "off" hour shifts, etc.) If it is found that the employee's work performance is being affected as a result of being a victim of domestic or gender-based violence, ITS will work with the employee to try to create a satisfactory resolution, including, but not limited to, specific work plans, the ability to take leave, provision of reasonable accommodations, referrals to the DVAL, EAP, and/or the local domestic violence service provider. OPDV is available for case specific technical assistance as needed. Employees will be given clear information of performance expectations, priorities, and performance evaluations. Employees should be made aware that not all employees requests for resolutions can be accommodated. If a disciplinary process is initiated, special care should be taken

to consider all aspects of the victimized employee's situation, and all available options in trying to resolve the performance problems should be exhausted, including making a referral to the DVAL, EAP, domestic violence program or other relevant services, consistent with existing collective bargaining unit agreements, statute, regulations, and ITS policy.