technique for sending secure messages over public networks, or Virtual Private Networks (VPN), used to encapsulate data transfers between devices not on the same private network. Specific techniques may be independently verified or combined to determine if e-records have been altered, including measures as simple as providing the sender with a receipt and copy of the received document, or established data processing techniques such as edit checks, checksum, and hashing techniques, such as those used in digital signature technologies that can detect changes to a record.

Authenticating sender identity based on potential risk and legal requirements : The need for authentication, i.e., validating a person's identity, depends on the transaction's nature and business requirements. While some don't require authenticating the sender, if required, there are generally three means to do so, used alone or in combination, concerning something the individual: knows (e.g., a secret, password, PIN, or cryptographic key); possesses (e.g., a token, ATM card or a smart card); or is (e.g., biometric characteristics such as their unique voice pattern or fingerprint). For low to moderate risk applications, typically authentication is done with unique passwords and/or PINs, or unique personal information. Higher risk applications often rely on "two-factor" authentication combining a PIN and something the user "possesses" or "is."

Confirming receipt, and documenting date/time: Some records require confirming document receipt, which varies in relation to the type of application. Webbased applications may return a screen confirming a transaction with a unique tracking/auditing number. High security e-records might confirm separately via alternate routes, e.g., a person's postal address confirmed via an external database and receipt confirmation sent via mail or courier (e.g., FedEx, UPS). Also, some government transactions require documenting date/time receipt information, like a time stamp used on a paper record. This is usually captured automatically by the receiving system, but for high-risk applications, a neutral or trusted third party can apply secure time stamping binding electronic date and time to a record using public key cryptography.