This policy applies to all "State Entities" (SE), defined as "State Government" in Executive Order 117, or "State Agencies" as defined in Section 101 of the State Technology Law. This includes employees and all third parties (such as local governments, consultants, vendors, and contractors) that use or access any IT resource for which the SE or ITS has administrative responsibility, including systems managed or hosted by third parties on behalf of the SE or ITS. While an SE may adopt a different policy, it must include the requirements set forth in this one. Where a conflict exists between this policy and a SE's policy, the more restrictive policy will take precedence.

## **4.0 Information Statement**

SEs must carefully consider the risks associated with conducting NYS business activities from an international location, and all access to non-public NYS systems or data f rom international locations must be authorized and documented by SE management. Various aspects of accessing non-public NYS systems and data from international locations have information security, legal, and privacy implications.

**4**1 SE-owned information may be at heightened risk of being compromised when accessed from international locations. Per the NYS-P03-002 Information Security Policy, Section 4.4, Information Risk Management, risk assessments must include additional considerations when systems, services, or information will reside, or be accessed from, outside of the Contiguous United States (CONUS) 2 to ensure compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory, and contractual requirements. Risk assessment results, and the decisions made based on these results, must be documented.