The employing agency, ITS or its Client Agency, must complete the types of offboarding described herein based on need and potential risk to the agency. ITS will assist the Client Agency by disabling the User's access to accounts, technology, and associated assets. There are several services included in the ITS Offboarding and Deprovisioning process to ensure the appropriate deactivation of accounts, to ensure legal obligations are met, and to secure the return of all ITS-owned equipment and assets.

Failure to offboard appropriately can lead to the loss of necessary data and can result in legal implications. EES is a Business Unit within the ITS Division of Legal Affairs ("DLA") under the leadership of the Chief General Counsel. EES provides legal preservation services to ITS and Client Agencies for both email and non-email electronically stored information ("ESI"). During the offboarding process, to the extent the employing agency, ITS or a Client Agency, identifies a legal preservation obligation related to the separating User, it can engage EES to assist in meeting those obligations.

## **4.1 Types of offboarding**

There are three (3) types of offboarding: Standard, Immediate, and Emergency. Please review the following to determine which is required.

**1** Standard: This is a typical offboarding in which a User is separating from the employing agency. The employing agency must submit Standard offboarding requests anywhere between 2 - 14 days prior to the requested decommission date, as defined in KB0027621 via utilizing the ITS ticketing system ("ITSM") and searching "Employee Offboarding." The requested decommission date is defined as the last day that an employee/contractor/consultant is being paid by a NYS entity, with specific access turned off prior to that date if necessary.

**2** Immediate : This is a lower risk offboarding that should have been submitted as Standard, but the time period lapsed, or the agency was recently notified of the separation. The employing agency must submit immediate offboarding requests as soon as possible via utilizing ITSM and searching "Employee Offboarding."