**4**2.5 Selecting E-signature Approaches: This is primarily a business decision. Under ESRA, when selecting e-signature approaches for given transactions government entities should support the public's interest in using sound and appropriate practices in governmental e-transactions. While they need not be submitted to ITS for approval, ESRA regulation 9 NYCRR ยง540.4(c) requires governmental entities to document and maintain a "business analysis and risk assessment" ("BA/RA"), defined in the regulation as: "identifying and evaluating various factors relevant to the selection of an electronic signature for use or acceptance in an electronic transaction. Such factors include, but are not limited to, relationships between parties to an electronic transaction, value of the transaction, risk of intrusion, risk of repudiation of an electronic signature, risk of fraud, functionality and convenience, business necessity and the cost of employing a particular electronic signature process."

The regulatory elements are not a checklist, but rather factors to consider during the BA/RA process. Governmental entities may evaluate each factor differently, accord them different weights based on the specifics of the underlying transaction, and even decide that a particular factor has no weight for a particular transaction. ESRA regulations don't stipulate the extent, level of detail, or format of the required BA/RA. Governmental entities may use their own processes for conducting these assessments, evaluating their specific business needs, risks, and impacts. The regulation also allows governmental entities to collaborate and conduct joint BA/RAs when selecting appropriate e-signature solutions for e-transactions common to such entities. For the same type of e-transaction, they may adopt as their own another governmental entities BA/RA. By combining and leveraging these efforts, governmental entities, including local governments, can reduce redundant, timeconsuming, and costly activities. 5

**4**3 E-Records Guidelines - Background: These are general, technology neutral concepts and guidelines for creating, managing, producing, and maintaining reliable and authentic e-records over time. It describes how governmental entities can protect the authenticity, integrity, security, and accessibility of e-records/e-record systems, but