Ensure e-records are included in personal privacy protection/access policies: Policies should maintain consistency with NYS FOIL, Personal Privacy Protection Law (PPPL), agency specific laws, and ESRA. NYS agency websites must comply with the Internet Security and Privacy Act (NYS Technology Law, Article II), adopting and posting an Internet privacy policy describing management, retention, and disclosure of users' personal information. ITS provides NYS agencies a model policy with items to take into account.

E-records public access methods must protect confidentiality: Governmental e-record systems must balance the need for e-records' public access against the entity's duty to protect confidentiality. Consider using automated means to redact or mask confidential information from e-records before releasing them to the public.

E-record access in the user's preferred form: Some lack access to technology for using e-records, while others prefer paper records. Per ESRA and its regulations 10 while maintaining paper copies of e-records isn't required, governmental entities must generate legible and usable paper copies if requested.

**4**3.3.4 Maintaining the Authenticity/Integrity of Electronically Signed Erecords: Not all e-records are e-signed, but those that are require preserving the context and links between components. Such contextual information provides additional evidence supporting the reliability and authenticity of the signed e-record and/or may actually constitute the e-signature process itself. Key challenges governmental entities face in maintaining electronically signed e-records include determining what information must be retained to maintain a valid, authentic, and reliable signed e-record, and preserving the link or association between the various components of a signed record over time.