An annual financial disclosure statement (hereinafter "FDS" or the "statements) is required of all policymakers and employees who -- unless exempted by the Commission -- earn compensation in excess of the job rate of Salary Grade 24. Part-time employees whose annualized full-time salary would exceed the threshold (but whose actual compensation is less) are required to file an FDS. The FDS requires filers to provide information concerning their personal financial interests, including but not limited to, a list of major assets, sources of income, liabilities, names of spouses and unemancipated children, whether they are licensed by or do business with a State agency, offices held with a political party, sources of gifts, reimbursements, trusts, deferred income, and real property. An FDS is a publicly available record; however, the Commission automatically redacts a filer's home address and the name of any minor child. In addition, employees may request that the Commission redact specific information from the copy made publicly available, or not answer specific questions on the FDS regarding a spouse or minor child. The FDS is usually filed around May 15th of each calendar year in which the required filers are employed by New York State, and within 30 days of beginning employment for new employees. A filer may request an extension of time to file an FDS on the basis of justifiable cause or undue hardship. The Commission can exempt from filing individuals at Salary Grade 24 or higher who are not policymakers and who do not perform certain job duties. The Ethics Officer maintains a list of titles for which the Commission has granted an FDS filing exemption. This list is available upon request.

## **4.3 Restrictions Concerning Conflicts of Interests**

Employees may not engage in activities that would create or appear to create a conflict with their public duties. Specifically, employees: (1) may not sell, lease, or rent real property, goods or services to the State or any agency of the State except through a