· Shared Private Key (Symmetric) Cryptography: Shared between the etransaction host and the signer, this verifies identity when e-signing a document using a single cryptographic key not publicly known, often a small, secured hardware device (e.g., RSA SecureID), whose symmetric key intermittently generates and displays "one time" passwords, typically inputted from the device to a computer, along with a PIN. The key isn't really "private" to the signer and hence has lesser authentication value but can be made more secure through the use of standards-based encryption techniques and smart cards or other hardware tokens.

· Public/Private Key or Asymmetric Cryptography: Two mathematically linked keys are generated, one a publicly available validation key, the other a private key that can't be deduced from the public key. The public key is often part of a "digital certificate," a digitally signed e-document binding the individual's identity to an unalterable private key. The signer creates a "digital signature" when using the private signing key, creating a unique mark (called a "signed hash") on an edocument. The document recipient uses the signer's public key to authenticate the attached private key and verify the e-document was not altered after signing. These are often used within the context of a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) in which a trusted third party known as a Certification Authority (CA) binds individual to private keys and issues and manages certificates. A PKI is governed by a certificate policy that governs all aspects of a digital certificate's generation, management, use, and storage as well as the roles and responsibilities of all entities involved in the PKI.