Determining the minimal information needed to prove authenticity and reliability of an electronically signed record in a legal proceeding requires a legal analysis. 11 When preparing their e-signature BA/RAs and deciding what information needs to be retained as part of the signed e-record, governmental entities should research caselaw for decisions about challenges to the authenticity or validity of an esignature, or assessing the reliability of an e-signed record on the basis of its esignature. The e-signature method selected will partially determine the approaches needed to ensure the trustworthiness of the e-signed e-record over time. In "Guidance on Managing Digital Identity Authentication Records," the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) has identified practices used by Federal agencies, including: maintaining adequate documentation of an esignature's validity gathered at or near the time the e-record was signed, where, depending on the signing method, this contextual information may actually be part of the signed e-record or captured in supporting records; or maintaining the ability to revalidate e-signatures (requiring agencies to retain the capability to revalidate the e-signature, along with retaining the signed e-record). As with any e-record, acceptance of signed e-records for legal, audit, and other purposes depends on demonstrating the trustworthiness of the system used to produce them, and, maintaining the ability to revalidate e-signatures is only available where the esignature method relies primarily on a digital object that can be revalidated (e.g., an encrypted hash, a digitized signature, or a biometric). Retaining all records of the system's functionality specific to a particular e-signature technology or approach is needed for the revalidation process to be successful. For digital signatures produced with PKI, ensure the PKI is governed by a certificate policy addressing all aspects of a digital certificate's generation, management, use, and storage as well as the roles and responsibilities of all entities involved in the PKI. And, regardless of approach used, retain documentation of the signer's identity; how, and the date/time, they were authenticated; signer's intent; and date/time the signing process was completed.