The opinions and beliefs expressed by users on this site are those of the users and do not necessarily reflect the views or opinions of [AGENCY]. Comments posted on this site are not considered formal public comment, legal notice, or a request for records, and are not promised or guaranteed to be accurate, current, or complete. Such comments will not be acknowledged. If your comment concerns an emergency or criminal matter, please contact 9-1-1 for immediate assistance. If your comment concerns fraud or governmental misconduct, you should contact the New York State Inspector General at https://ig.ny.gov/form/complaint-form-long. [AGENCY] assumes no responsibility for and expressly disclaims responsibility for updating this site to keep information current or to ensure the accuracy or completeness of any posted information. New York State is not required to preserve indefinitely all material posted to its digital outlets. Links or advertisements provided on this website may have been placed there by the social media host site and not the [AGENCY]. Their placement does not constitute an endorsement of the content, viewpoint, accuracy, opinions, policies, products, services, or accessibility of those items by the [AGENCY] or New York State. Once you follow a link to another website from this website, including another website maintained by the State, you are subject to the terms and conditions governing the use of that website.

New York State reserves the right to modify this disclaimer at any time. Continued use of New York State social media pages following the posting of any modification signifies acceptance of such modification.

Questions regarding the New York State social media use disclaimer may be directed to the State government entity's Public Information Officer, Digital Information Officer, Chief Counsel, or other agency designee.

## **4.2 Use of Social Media by State Workforce Members in their Official Capacities**

Duly authorized SE employees may use social media in their official capacities and on behalf of their employing SE. SEs may also authorize employees to use social media technologies to (a) increase collaboration, (b) support greater participation in the SE's operations, and (c) improve operational efficiencies.