The SE shall promptly report incident information to the SE Information Security Officer (ISO)/designated security representative$_{ }$ and the CJIS System Agency Information Security Officer for New York State. Information security events and weaknesses associated with information systems shall be communicated in a manner allowing timely corrective action to be taken. Formal event reporting and escalation procedures shall be in place. Wherever feasible, the SE shall employ automated mechanisms to assist in the reporting of security incidents. All

employees, contractors and third-party users shall be made aware of the procedures for reporting the different types of event and weakness that might have an impact on the security of agency assets and are required to report any information security events and weaknesses as quickly as possible to the designated point of contact: the SE Information Security Officer (ISO)/designated security representative and the CJIS System Agency (CSA) Information Security Officer for New York State.

## **Department of Health & Human Services (HIPAA/HITECH)**

In addition to notifying affected individuals and the media (where appropriate), covered entities must notify the Secretary of Health and Human Services of breaches of unsecured protected health information. Covered entities will notify the Secretary by visiting the HHS web site at: and filling out and electronically submitting a breach report form through the HHS web portal. If a breach affects 500 or more individuals, covered entities must notify the Secretary without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60 days following a breach. If, however, a breach affects fewer than 500 individuals, the covered entity may notify the Secretary of such breaches on an annual basis. Reports of breaches affecting fewer than 500 individuals are due to the Secretary no later than 60 days after the end of the calendar year in which the breaches are discovered. Center for Medicaid Services