"[A]ttached to or logically associated with . . ." : A penned signature becomes part of a physical paper document and remains with it during transit and after filing. Under ESRA, e-signatures are viewed as "attached to or logically associated with an electronic record" if the e-signature is linked to the record during transmission and storage, achieved by various means. For instance, an e-signature can be a discrete digital object that is part of the document the same as for an ink signature, or can be an object associated with the document through an embedded link, or be maintained separately but logically associated with the record through a database, index, or other means.

When a process serves as an e-signature, the system used to create a signed erecord logically associates all the signed record's components, e.g., when a document is created with an official's sign-on to a procurement system where the official has only been authorized to access the system to create signed procurement documents, and the official's authority to sign is embedded in the system. The record is created through a sign-on authentication using a PIN or password with the official's actions captured while accessing the system. The record exists conceptually as a 'document' in the system, but the various pieces of the "record" may be maintained in various databases and system logs. The collection and maintenance of different informational pieces, along with the official's intent to sign the record, creates an e-signature under ESRA.

Under ESRA the attachment or logical association between signed record and signature must be created at the point a record is signed, maintained during transmission of the signed record, and retained as long as the signed record is needed including subsequent storage. Creation of the e-signature, including its attachment or logical association to the signed record, can occur outside the government entity's system. A private sector entity regularly submitting reports to a government agency might have an internal system housing and formatting electronic reports, with an authorized signer e-signing such reports at one point in time, and a government entity electing to accept those signed reports when they are later electronically submitted later.