Is there a business need for a signature ? Even if not legally mandated, signatures may be used on paper documents for purposes such as authentication or security, e.g., for documenting that a party to a transaction attested to the accuracy of the information provided, agreed to certain conditions, and/or read and understood related documents. In e-transactions, where no formal signature is legally required, it may be preferable to address authentication and security using technologies and procedures meeting business needs without using an e-signature. However, higher risk transactions may carry legal implications or otherwise benefit from using e-signatures for system security, audit, fraud protection, repudiation, or program management issues. Consult legal counsel to review such issues and before deciding to implement an e-signature solution.

**4**2.3 ESRA Definition of an Electronic Signature: ESRA, at ยง302 (3), defines an "electronic signature" as: "an electronic sound, symbol, or process, attached to or logically associated with an electronic record and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the record." This definition affords the parties to an etransaction the greatest possible flexibility in selecting an appropriate e-signature solution, while setting some parameters on what constitutes an e-signature for purposes of ESRA:

"[A]n electronic sound, symbol, or process. . .": Under ESRA, various digital objects may serve as e-signatures, as simple as a set of keyboarded characters or as complex as an encrypted hash of a document's contents. ESRA also allows a process

to create an e-signature, when a system used to create a signed e-record associates the recorded events of accessing an application with the content to be signed, creating a virtual record of the signer's actions and intent. Such signing processes may also use a password, PIN, or other digital object to authenticate the signer.