Preserve links between signed e-records components over time: Systems creating e-records should manage all signed e-record components, even revalidating an e-signature where possible. Lacking relatively short retention need, records may be migrated to a new system or ultimately stored offline. Retaining contextual information is crucial for signed e-records, and plans should address signed e-record retention requirements, so those with longer retention periods (6 years+) can be migrated to new systems or stored on data storage devices while preserving the link and associations of their various components. If the e-record creating system's functionality is no longer available, preserving the relationship of the various components of the signed e-record may involve reformatting it., in a planned, well documented, conducted-in-the-normal-course-of-business process, in

a way the records' authenticity, integrity, and reliability can be shown. Seriously consider if the ability to revalidate an e-signature throughout a signed e-records retention period is critical. Retaining an ability to revalidate an e-signature may be a difficult and costly task especially for records with longer retention periods, requiring use of long-term signature validation services. 12

Maintaining adequate documentation of an e-signature's validity, and ability to revalidate an e-signature at a later date, are not necessarily mutually exclusive options. Both strategies can be used simultaneously or during different stages in the e-record's life cycle. Base using these options on business requirements and assessment of risks, determining how long an e-signature needs to be validated, and if something other than original signature validation is acceptable. The ability to document and revalidate a signature could be maintained during periods of highest risk of repudiation, or during the record's active life. During its inactive storage, with lower repudiation risk, an entity may determine it can rely solely on documentation about the signed e-record's validity. 13

## **4.4 Electronic Notary Acts**