The legal issues regarding the use of social media may differ across SEs. Therefore, before utilizing social media, SEs should consult with their legal counsel and other relevant parties to review the legal issues relevant to their organization. Specifically, SEs must ensure that their technology tools comply with: privacy laws; applicable New York State information technology policies and standards (see section 9.0 below); records retention and archival requirements, where applicable; Freedom of Information policies and laws; requirements of Federal law (including but not limited to the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States); the Hatch Act and/or New York State Civil Service Law Section 107, and any subsequent amendments, as well as any other applicable state and federal laws, rules, and regulations; copyrights; and Terms of Service or Use. SEs should also consult with legal counsel to evaluate whether posts or content that a user provides are subject to removal from a social media site before removing them.

## **4.4 Mitigation of Security Risks**

For successful integration of social media into a SE's operation, the entity's information and systems must be secured against malicious activity. Users must be aware that the use of social media within the organization poses risks that can be mitigated but never fully eliminated. SEs should review the NYS Information Security Policy to help mitigate such risks.

If available on the platform, SE's must use the strongest multifactor authentication possible to secure their social media account. The preferred methods for implementation of multifactor authentication here are in the following order of precedence: security key; app based one-time password or push notification; =SMS based one-time password.

## **4.5 Personal Use of Social Media**

State employees may share personal views and express themselves as private citizens on social media, but such personal use must make clear that it is not an official act of the employee's SE or New York State. In addition, State employees must not share any confidential, private, or sensitive information pertaining to their SE, other employees, or job activities.