If no action is taken to identify the account is not stale, on day 60, the mailbox will be removed from the Global Address list, will no longer receive mail, and all the contents of the mailbox will be scheduled to be emptied on day 90, with the following exception: if the content within any mailbox is placed on legal hold by the agency prior to account de-activation on day 60, the email content will remain intact and accessible through the Office365 eDiscovery Center. Agencies will need to use the Office365 eDiscovery features to place a legal hold on any such accounts. Mailboxes that remain stale through day 90 will be emptied and the license recovered. Data from an emptied mailbox that was not placed on legal hold using the Office365 eDiscovery features while the account was active cannot be recovered at this point.

## **Reviewing reports**

Mailboxes are identified for de-activation either at the request of agency Human Resources/Personnel Office pursuant to the agency's standard separation process management, or because the named user has not sent email from the mailbox for at least 30 days. Both of these types of accounts will be listed in reports regularly sent to your agency's shared mailbox for which your agency has designated staff to review. By regularly issuing these reports to agencies, agency program areas and agency General Counsels can validate that there are no programmatic, business or legal reasons to maintain the account or preserve its contents, including compliance with records retention requirements. The agency may take action to preserve an account that appears on its stale mailbox reports, or the contents of an account appearing on such reports, by taking the steps outlined in this Inactive Mailbox Management Process.