State Capitol P.O. Box 2062 Albany, NY 12220-0062 www.its.ny.gov

|-------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| New York State  Information Technology Standard | No:  NYS-S14-005                                                            |
| ITS Standard                                    | :  Updated:  06/27/2024                                                     |
|                                                 | Security Logging Issued By:  NYS Office of Information  Technology Services |

# Title: **1.0 Purpose and Benefits**

Security logs are records that contain information related to a specific event that has occurred within an organization's systems or networks. Security logs contain computer security-related information, such as audit logs that track user authentication attempts and user actions, and security device logs that record possible attacks.

Security logs are generated by many sources, including but not limited to: security software and firewalls; intrusion detection and prevention systems; databases; applications; and operating systems (OS) on servers, workstations, and networking equipment. The monitoring of logs allows authorized staff to identify security incidents, policy violations, fraudulent activity, and operational problems. This standard defines requirements for security log generation, management, retention, disposal, access, and use.

## **2.0 Authority**

Section 103(10) of the State Technology Law provides the Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) with the authority to establish statewide technology policies, including technology and security standards. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 117 1 , issued January 2002, provides the State Chief Information Officer with the authority to oversee, direct and coordinate the establishment of information technology policies,

protocols and standards for State government, including hardware, software, security and business re-engineering. Details regarding this authority can be found in NYS ITS Policy, NYS-P08-002 Authority to Establish State Enterprise Information Technology (IT) Policy, Standards and Guidelines .

## **3.0 Scope**