This policy describes these requirements as they are applicable to State government entities, providing guidance to ensure that the deployment of technology in government is coordinated with consistent approaches for compliance. This guidance was originally issued by the Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) after consultation with the former New York State Consumer Protection Board, the New York State Department of Labor, and the former New York State Office of Cyber Security and Critical

Infrastructure Coordination (now a part of ITS). These agencies, or their successors, have certain responsibilities concerning the privacy and security of personal identifying information, such as SSNs, used by State government entities. Per statute, an employer's failure to establish policies or procedures to safeguard against privacy breaches may be presumptive evidence of a violation. State government entities may wish to adopt agency level policies not inconsistent with these guidelines to avoid allegations of breach and imposition of authorized penalties.

## **2.0 Authority**

Chapter 279 of the Laws of 2008 contained changes to the New York State Labor Law which went into effect on January 3, 2009, and changes to the New York State Public Officers Law, Article 6-A (Personal Privacy Protection Law), which went into effect January 1, 2010, governing the use of SSNs by state agencies and political subdivisions. Many of these changes concern the use of SSNs in technology systems, including the Internet, websites, and electronic mail.

Section 103(10) of the State Technology Law provides the Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) with the authority to establish statewide technology policies, including technology and security standards. Section 2 of Executive Order No. 117 provides the State Chief Information Officer the authority to oversee, direct and coordinate the establishment of information technology policies, protocols and standards for State government, including hardware, software, security, and business re-engineering. Details regarding this authority can be found in NYS ITS Policy NYSP08-002, Authority to Establish State Enterprise Information Technology (IT) Policy, Standards and Guidelines.