**2** NYS Office of Information Technology Services (ITS) NYS Chief Information Security Officer (NYS CISO) - The NYS CISO, or their designee, provides for overall coordination of IR including the escalation of an incident. The NYS CISO leads the Chief Information Security Office (CISO) within ITS which provides IR services for ITS-supported agencies (Client Agencies).

**3** NYS ITS Cyber Command Center (CyCom) - CyCom serves as a central group for detection, analysis, tracking, response to, and reporting of cyber threats and incidents for Client Agencies. CyCom responds to incidents by providing hands-on technical IR and will recommend remediation and/or mitigation steps for Client Agency staff to reduce the likelihood of future incidents.

**4** New York State Intelligence Center (NYSIC) Cyber Analysis Unit (CAU) NYSIC CAU facilitates collaboration and information sharing with other authorized entities that may be experiencing the same or similar incidents, to help resolve the problem more quickly than if done separately. NYSIC CAU collects statewide information on the types of vulnerabilities being exploited and the frequency of attacks, then shares preventative information to help other SEs protect themselves from similar attacks.

**5** Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services (DHSES) Office of Emergency Management (OEM) - At Executive Chamber direction, OEM coordinates state agencies' response to natural and human-caused disasters and emergencies, including those caused by cyber events and major cyber incidents.

**6** DHSES Cyber Incident Response Team (CIRT) - CIRT offers remote or on-site support to eligible organizations, local governments, non-Executive state agencies, and public authorities. CIRT provides incident-specific recommendations on containment, eradication, and recovery to reduce the impact of the disruption. CIRT will also provide post-incident security recommendations, which can help organizations build a more proactive cyber program going forward.