This standard applies to all "State Entities" (SE), defined as "State Government" in Executive Order 117, or "State Agencies" as defined in Section 101 of the State Technology Law. This includes employees and all third parties (such as local governments, consultants, vendors, and contractors) that use or access any Information Technology (IT) Resource for which the SE or ITS has administrative responsibility, including systems managed or hosted by third parties on behalf of the SE or ITS. While an SE may adopt a different policy/standard, it must include the requirements set forth in this one. Where a conflict exists between this standard and an SE's policy/standard, the more restrictive requirement will take precedence.

This standard applies to members of the State workforce who have been designated as having information security responsibilities for an SE. This includes those within an information security business unit who fulfill the functional responsibilities of an ISO as outlined in the NYS-P03-002: Information Security Policy, and is not intended to include support staff.

## **4.0 Information Statement**

Due to the dynamic nature of information technology and the need to maintain an adequate level of current knowledge and proficiency in information security, a minimum of thirtyseven and one half (37.5) hours of CPE credits must be completed annually. The CPEs must be directly related to information systems security. The SE will provide the opportunity for information security professionals to earn the required CPEs annually.

Criteria for qualifying the activities for CPE credits will be based on Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) and International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (ISC2) guidelines. In cases where there is a discrepancy between these guidelines, the lesser requirements apply.

The annual time period to earn CPE credits will coincide with the calendar year (January 1 to December 31). An individual's cycle will begin the January following appointment to the information security role. Credits must be earned during the current year to qualify and may not be carried forward or backward from year to year.