1 State vehicles may be used only for official State business; and their use for any personal business ís strictly forbidden except under very limited circumstances where (i) personal use such as commuting is expressly authorized by the Director of State Operations or (ii) the personal use is incidental to official business (see examples below). Even in cases where personal use is authorized or is incidental to official business, each person operating a State vehicle is expected to exercise good judgment to avoid the appearance of impropriety.

2 All personal use of State vehicles must be reported on the vehicle use (see Section G of this Policy) unless the personal use is incidental to official business. For any personal use that is not incidental, the user of the State vehicle must reimburse the agency or authority the value of such use or the value must be treated as imputed personal income for tax purposes.   For requirements; see Comptroller Payroll Bulletin; Reporting the Taxable Value of Personal Use of Employer Provided Vehicles and Chauffeur Services; and Form AC 3173. log

3 State vehicles should not be used to transport passengers unless are: State employees engaged in official business; (ii) non-State employees engaged in official business with State employees; or (iii) persons in the control or custody of the agency. Picking up or dropping off friends or family members at their place of employment or school in a State vehicle regardless of their status as State employees-is strictly prohibited. they

**4 ** Due to the public nature of the work being performed when operating a State vehicle, persons using a State vehicle have a limited expectation of privacy in connection with such use. State agencies and authorities expressly reserve the right to monitor and record the use of any equipment they issue or assign for a legitimate work-related purpose, and State vehicles are no exception:   Accordingly, the use of a State vehicle may be monitored and recorded at any time by visual; documentary , or electronic means.

## **Illustrative Examples**

Example 1 An employee who is required to stay overnight for an out of town meeting drives the State vehicle to a restaurant in close proximity to the overnight lodging in order to have dinner.