During your visit to this website you may send an e-mail to the GSA. Your e-mail address and the contents of your message will be collected. The information collected is not limited to text characters and may include audio, video, and graphic information formats included in the message. Your email address and the information included in your message will be used to respond to you, to address issues you identify, to improve this website, or to forward your message to another State agency for appropriate action. Your e-mail address is not collected for commercial purposes and the GSA is not authorized to sell or otherwise disclose your e-mail address for commercial purposes.

During your visit to this website you may initiate a transaction such as a survey, registration, or order form. The information, including personal information, volunteered by you in initiating the transaction is used by the GSA to operate GSA programs, which include the provision of goods, services, and information. The information collected by the GSA may be disclosed by the GSA for those purposes that may be reasonably ascertained from the nature and terms of the transaction in connection with which the information was submitted.

The GSA does not knowingly collect personal information from children or create profiles of children through this website. Users are cautioned, however, that the collection of personal information submitted in an e-mail or through an online transaction will be treated as though it was submitted by an adult, and may, unless exempted from access by federal or State law, be subject to public access. The GSA strongly encourages parents and teachers to be involved in children's Internet activities and to provide guidance whenever children are asked to provide personal information online.

## **Information and Choice**

As noted above, the GSA does not collect any personal information about you during your visit to this website unless you provide that information voluntarily by sending an e-mail or initiating an online transaction such as a survey, registration, or order form. You may choose not to send us an email, respond to a survey, or complete an order form. While your choice not to participate in these activities may limit your ability to receive specific