This policy applies to all "State Entities" ("SE"), defined as "State Government" entities as defined in Executive Order 117 2 , issued January 2002, or "State Agencies" as defined in Section 101 of the State Technology Law . This includes employees and all other third parties (such as local governments, consultants, vendors, and contractors), that use or access any IT resource for which ITS has administrative responsibility, including systems managed or hosted by third parties on behalf of the ITS. While an SE may adopt a different standard, it must include the requirements set forth in this one. Where a conflict exists between this policy and a SE's policy, the more restrictive policy will take precedence.This policy applies to users of any system's information or physical infrastructure regardless of its form or format, created or used to support SEs. It is the user's responsibility to read and understand this policy and to conduct their activities in accordance with its terms. In addition, users must read and understand NYS-P03-002 Information Security Policy, its associated policies, standards, and guidelines, and NYSP11-001 Use of Social Media Technology Policy.

## **4.0 Information Statement**

Except for any privilege or confidentiality recognized by law, users have no legitimate expectation of privacy during any use of the State's IT resources or in any data on those resources. Any use may be monitored, intercepted, recorded, read, copied, accessed, or captured in any manner including in real time, and used or disclosed in any manner, by authorized personnel without additional prior notice to users. Periodic monitoring may be conducted of systems used, including but not limited to all computer files and all forms of electronic communication (including email, text messaging, instant messaging, telephones, computer systems and other electronic records). In addition to the notice provided in this policy, users may also be notified with a warning banner text at system entry points where users initially sign on about being monitored and may be reminded that unauthorized use of the State's IT resources is not permissible.