I agree, and it is my intent, to electronically sign this document by [describe the e-signature solution used]. By submitting this e-document to [name of recipient individual or entity] in this way, I understand that my e-signing and submitting is the legal equivalent of having placed my handwritten signature and affirmation on the submitted document and am affirming to the truth of the information contained therein.

Some commercial e-signature products provide a "ceremony" warning a signer that a legally binding commitment is being made, collect contextual information about the circumstances of the signing, provide formats and visual signatures similar to those found in paper documents, and collect information concerning the signer's intent.

**4**2.4 E-signature Approaches: E-signature creation involves varied technologies, credentials/digital objects, and processes. Instead of stand-alone technologies, envision a range of e-signing approaches with varying levels of protection (security, authentication, record integrity, and repudiation). The descriptions below are roughly organized from lowest to highest protection levels, which can be combined to increase protection strengths. Government entities selecting from these e-signature approaches or combinations must weigh factors such as public policy and legal concerns:

· Click Through/Click Wrap: Signers are asked to affirm intent or agreement by clicking a button, sometimes typing "I agree" before clicking to guard against later claims of errors. Identification information collection, authentication processes before the signature is applied, and signing process security procedures can vary greatly. Click Through/Click Wrap is mostly used for low risk, low value consumer transactions, sometimes combined with approaches using Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) and/or passwords to authenticate signers.

· S-signatures: Simple symbols between forward slash marks ("/ s /") used by some government agencies to avoid identity theft risk or misuse, especially when posted on publicly accessible Internet sites. If an S-signature meets ESRA's other indicia of an e-signature, it has the same validity as any other e-signature.