## **Parks and Environment**

Over the course of the Capital Plan, environment and parks capital spending will continue to support climate change mitigation efforts; conservation of environmental resources; clean water and wastewater infrastructure needs; on-going improvements to parks and public lands; and the continued cleanup of environmentally hazardous areas, in addition to many other capital and infrastructure needs throughout the State.

The Capital Plan includes $400 million in funding for the EPF for FY 2025. Annual spending from the EPF is projected to increase to $380 million in FY 2025, while averaging $398 million per year thereafter. The EPF finances a variety of environmental projects and is funded through several revenue sources including RETT, unredeemed deposits on cans, bottles and containers, and a transfer from the General Fund. Additional miscellaneous environmental receipts to the EPF include wetland permit applications, pesticide applications, and water withdrawal fees; freshwater wetland, mineral resource, hazardous waste, and electronic waste fees; and interest from the sale and lease of surplus property.

The Capital Plan includes $100 million in new funding for the State Superfund Program and advances $500 million for clean water infrastructure funding, which continues the State's commitment to the development of clean drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, as well as source water protection.

Also included is a new round of appropriations under the NYW program, which will provide $90 million to DEC for flood control, air monitoring infrastructure, the improvement of various campgrounds, the repair and maintenance of dams, stewardship of public lands, and the rehabilitation of fish hatcheries. The Enacted Budget will also provide $200 million to support OPRHP's capital projects budget, $150 million for the NY SWIMS initiative, and $100 million for projects corresponding to the 100 th anniversary of New York State park system.

DEC's capital spending is expected to average $1.8 billion annually to meet health and safety requirements; ensure compliance with state and federal environmental mandates; maintain and upgrade campgrounds, environmental centers and camps, fish hatcheries, and other State-owned facilities; maintain flood control structures; fund wastewater and drinking water infrastructure; and fund shore protection projects for communities threatened by coastal erosion.

The Capital Plan also includes a new $50 million appropriation to support the implementation of Executive Order 22. Investments will be made to supplement public facilities' decarbonization efforts and provide resources to initiate procurement practices that prioritize sustainable and climate-resilient design practices.

## **Parks and Environment (Continued)**