 Life Sciences ($320 million). The Capital Plan reflects the commitment from monetary settlement funds to support the State's Life Sciences Initiative. The State will provide funding to support state-of-the-art laboratory space, equipment, technology, and investment capital for early-stage life science firms, which is expected to be matched by private sector partners.

 MTA Capital Plan ($250 million). The Capital Plan includes $250 million for the MTA's Penn Station Access project, which will open a new Metro-North link directly into Penn Station. The project is expected to provide enhanced system resiliency, improvements in regional mobility, and four new Metro-North stations in the Bronx.

 Municipal Restructuring and Downtown Revitalization ($270 million). The Capital Plan includes $20 million in funding for a municipal consolidation competition to encourage the reduction of costs through a competitive process to be administered by DOS. This funding is in addition to $150 million for the first DRI and for municipal restructuring to assist and encourage local governments and school districts to implement shared services, cooperation agreements, mergers, and other actions that are intended to reduce operating costs and property tax burdens. The second DRI ($100 million) funds housing, economic development, transportation, and community projects to attract and retain residents, visitors, and businesses to downtowns.

 Clean Water Infrastructure ($250 million). The Capital Plan continues the commitment of $500 million for water quality capital projects, including $250 million funded from monetary settlements. The investment continues supporting drinking water infrastructure, wastewater infrastructure, and source water protection.