 Clean Water, Clean Air, and Green Jobs Bond Act. In November 2022, voters approved a $4.2 billion bond act that will support: capital improvements and enhancements in flood risk reduction/restorations; open space, working lands conservation, and recreation; climate change mitigation; and water quality improvement and resilient infrastructure. The Environmental Bond Act supports various initiatives within the FY 2025 Enacted Budget, including resiliency and land improvement efforts. In September 2023, Governor Hochul released a roadmap for P-12 schools to transition bus fleets to zero-emission vehicles funded, in part, with $500 million from the Environmental Bond Act.

 Climate and Flood Resiliency. The Enacted Budget includes funding for investments to mitigate damage from major flooding events, including: $250 million from the 2022 Environmental Bond Act to promote voluntary home buyouts in communities most vulnerable to flooding; $130 million for Green Resiliency Grants to support flood control infrastructure projects; and $40 million to launch the Resilient and Ready program, which will support low- and moderate-income homeowners with resiliency improvements and assist with repairs after a catastrophic event.

 Clean Water Infrastructure. The Enacted Budget adds $500 million to support clean water infrastructure, raising the State's total investment to $5.5 billion. This funding will support local construction projects to improve municipal drinking water distribution, filtration systems, and wastewater treatment infrastructure.

 State Parks. The Enacted Budget allocates over $300 million in capital funding to the OPRHP, including investments in public swimming facilities that support the State's initiative to provide expanded access to safe swimming opportunities, $10 million to support the New York Botanical Garden, and $10M to support zoos, other botanical gardens, and aquariums. Additionally, the Budget funds the installation of security equipment throughout the State park system.