The Debt Reform Act of 2000 ("Debt Reform Act") restricts the issuance of State-supported debt funding to capital purposes only and, with certain limited exceptions for long-lived MTA projects, generally limits the maximum term of bonds to 30 years. The Debt Reform Act limits the amount of new State-supported debt to 4 percent of State personal income, and new State-supported debt service costs to 5 percent of All Funds receipts. The restrictions apply to State-supported debt issued after April 1, 2000. DOB, as administrator of the Debt Reform Act, determined that the State complied with the statutory caps in the most recent calculation period (FY 2023).

The State enacted legislation that suspended certain provisions of the Debt Reform Act for FY 2021 and FY 2022 bond issuances as part of the State's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Accordingly, State-supported debt issued in FY 2021 and FY 2022 was not limited to capital purposes and is not counted towards the statutory caps on debt outstanding and debt service.

Current projections anticipate that State-supported debt outstanding and State-supported debt service will continue to remain below the limits imposed by the Debt Reform Act. Based on the most recent personal income and debt outstanding forecasts, the available debt capacity under the debt outstanding cap is expected to decline from $25.9 billion in FY 2024 to a low point of $800 million in FY 2029. This calculation includes the estimated impact of funding capital commitments with State bonds. The debt service on State-supported debt subject to the statutory cap is projected at $3.8 billion in FY 2025 inclusive of prior year prepayments, or roughly $8.0 billion below the statutory debt service limit.