State-related debt is a broader measure that includes State-supported debt, State-guaranteed debt, moral obligation financings, and certain contingent-contractual obligation financings, where debt service is paid from non-State sources in the first instance, and State appropriations are available, but typically not expected to be needed, to make payments. This category also includes inter-governmental loans, where no bonds are issued but the State has agreed to pay annual loan payments to another governmental entity. The classification is made at the time of the original issuance.

State debt is reported in the Capital Plan on a cash basis and includes all debt issued by the State and public authorities acting on its behalf for government activities and business-type activities as defined in the ACFR.

State debt does not include debt that is issued by State public authorities for which the State has no financial obligation (i.e., "conduit debt"), or debt issued by or on behalf of local governments and secured (in whole or in part) by State assistance and grants aid payments. For example, certain school districts and NYC have pledged State aid to help pay debt service for locally sponsored and locally determined financings. Additionally, certain of the State's public authorities issue debt supported by non-State resources (i.e., NYSTA toll revenue bonds, TBTA or MTA revenue bonds, or DASNY dormitory facilities revenue bonds) or issue debt on behalf of private clients (e.g., DASNY hospital revenue bonds). Because this debt was not issued by, or on behalf of, the State, the State has no obligation to pay debt service, and it is not considered State debt in the ACFR. Therefore, it is not included in the Capital Plan. Instead, this debt is accounted for in the respective financial statements of the local governments responsible for the issuance of such debt.