In FY 2025, the State plans to finance 37 percent of capital projects spending with long-term bonds and 63 percent with cash and Federal aid. Most of the long-term bonds (93 percent) will be issued on behalf of the State through public authorities. All authority debt issued on behalf of the State is approved by the State legislature, acting on behalf of the people, and the issuing authority's board of directors, and in most instances, is subject to approval by the PACB. Authority Bonds, as defined in the Capital Plan, do not include debt issued by authorities that are backed by non-State resources. State cash resources will finance 44 percent of capital spending. Federal aid is expected to fund 19 percent of the State's FY 2025 capital spending, primarily for transportation. Year-toyear, total PAYGO support is projected to increase from FY 2024 to FY 2025 by $2.3 billion, with State PAYGO increasing by $1.8 billion and Federal PAYGO support increasing by $498 million. Bond-financed spending is projected to increase by $597 million, with Authority Bond spending increasing by $736 million and General Obligation Bond spending decreasing by $140 million.

## **FY 2025 Debt Issuances**

Debt issuances will finance capital investments in transportation, higher education, environmental protection, economic development, and the maintenance of correctional and mental hygiene facilities. Debt issuances over the five-year period are expected to be offset by the $10 billion increase in PAYGO capital spending reflected in the last three Enacted Budgets, including $1 billion of new PAYGO resources added in the FY 2025 Enacted Budget.