The Department partners regularly with Federal, State, and local agencies, as well as industry/professional associations and community-based organizations to conduct outreach to the M/WBE and SDVOB community regarding contract opportunities and the Department's contracting methods (i.e., lowest responsible bidder, best value, discretionary purchasing, etc.). These organizations include: The Federal Highway Administration, ESD, OGS, the Small Business Administration, PANYNJ, the Association of General Contractors, General Contracting Association, and the Association of Minority Enterprises of New York. The Office of Diversity and Opportunity has conducted, and will continue to conduct, D/M/WBE and SDVOB outreach and business networking events that focus on upcoming Department contracting opportunities in an effort to encourage and increase participation.

The Department will also continue to implement targeted supportive services to DBEs using Federal funds. Since many DBEs are also certified M/WBEs, these supportive services will benefit firms in both contracting programs. Furthermore, the Department is developing a pilot Mentor/ Protégé program as a strategy for DBEs to increase their contracting opportunities. The Governor remains committed to maximizing M/WBE and SDVOB participation in State contracting and continues to set a 30 percent M/WBE utilization goal and 6 percent SDVOB utilization goal. The Department remains committed to expanding and maximizing opportunities for M/WBE and SDVOB firms and continues to endeavor to meet the goals through increased M/WBE and SDVOB utilization in Department procurements. Additionally, the Department summarizes its program efforts and results to both the Federal Highway Administration, and in the plans and reports required by those agencies.

## **GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS**