Prior Enacted Budgets included legislation that authorizes the Budget Director to enter into a financing agreement with the GDC to make debt service payments on the RRIF loan, subject to annual appropriation by the State Legislature. With this legislative authorization, the State Budget Director will enter into a contractual obligation with the GDC that obligates the State to seek appropriations annually in future budgets and, if appropriated, to provide to the GDC an amount each year sufficient to make all payments on the RRIF loan. Such payments are expected to be funded from the State's General Fund. The legislation also includes the authorization to set aside funds quarterly in advance of payments due to GDC for the Hudson Tunnel Project.

 Pennsylvania Station Area Civic and Land Use Improvement Project. The State has completed the transformation of the James A. Farley Post Office building into the Moynihan Train Hall and opened an expanded West End Concourse at Penn Station. The concourse provides direct access to 17 of the station's 21 tracks for LIRR commuters and intercity rail passengers, offering an underground connection between the Moynihan Train Hall and Penn Station via 33rd Street with a direct link to the 8th Avenue Subway (A/C/E Trains).

Expanding on this vision, Governor Hochul plans to create a commuter-first Penn Station, the busiest transit hub in the Western Hemisphere. The reconstructed Penn Station is expected to create an extensive, natural light-filled train hall that more than doubles passenger space from 123,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet and nearly doubles the number of entrances from 12 to 20. The station reconstruction complements a station expansion that will increase track and train capacity by 40 percent to more effectively accommodate the service needs of travelers and commuters. Project costs are estimated at $22 billion.