The FY 2025 Enacted Budget includes $166 million of capital assistance appropriations for nonMTA transit. This total includes the fifth $20 million installment of a five-year, $100 million program to assist local transit systems with the transition to electric buses, and $26 million for the NFTA's existing rail system. These are part of a five-year, $724 million investment in non-MTA transit services that began in FY 2023.

The MTA's $52.1 billion 2020-2024 Capital Program represents the largest investment in MTA infrastructure in State history. The program prioritizes improvements to signal technology, increases accessibility, addresses quality of life concerns, invests in the LIRR and Metro North Railroad, and upgrades bus service. To accompany this investment, the State enacted key reforms and dedicated funding streams for the MTA. The State secured $25 billion in financing to directly support the MTA's 2020-2024 Capital Program, consisting of $15 billion from the Central Business District Tolling Program and $10 billion from other tax sources.

In addition, the Enacted Budget continues the State's $3.1 billion contribution to the MTA's 20202024 Capital Program. The program will increase accessibility by making 70 additional subway stations ADA-accessible so that stations serving over 60 percent of passengers will be fully accessible.

The FY 2025 Enacted Budget also includes funding for future MTA capital projects, including: $52 million to advance design and engineering for the Interborough Express; $16 million for a feasibility study, environmental review, and preliminary engineering for the potential westward expansion of the Second Avenue Subway; and $20 million to advance a study, environmental review, and preliminary construction work to improve resiliency on the Metro North Hudson River Line.

In addition, the FY 2025 Enacted Budget includes $69 million in funding to cover the New York State share of costs related to the Hudson Yards Concrete Casing-Section 3 portion of the Gateway Program.

In addition to investments in new rolling stock (i.e., subway cars, train cars, and buses), the MTA Capital Program advances several major construction projects. These include Phase 2 of the Second Avenue subway project, which will provide three new fully ADA compliant stations and a connection with the Metro North Railroad. The Penn Station Access project will carry New Haven line passengers and East Bronx passengers directly into Penn Station. The East Side Access project has brought the LIRR into Grand Central Madison, a new concourse below Grand Central Terminal. The program also completes funding for the LIRR third track project, which adds 10 miles of mainline between Floral Park and Hicksville, providing additional capacity and shortened service disruptions for 41 percent of LIRR ridership .