## **Health**

The FY 2025 Enacted Budget establishes a new Safety Net Transformation Plan, which will be authorized to utilize existing resources from the existing Statewide Health Care Facility Transformation Programs (Statewide) IV and Statewide V programs to support capital improvements and provide regulatory flexibility for Safety Net Hospitals and their partners. Additionally, the FY 2025 Enacted Budget authorizes up to $20 million from existing Statewide V resources to support capital grants to institutions and facilities that carry out the research and treatment of ALS and other rare diseases, including the Empire State ALS Alliance. This funding will be used to enable further innovation, research, and drug development, and to provide funding for health care providers involved in the treatment with these diseases to carry out transformative capital improvements. The Enacted Budget also authorizes up to $300 million from existing Statewide V resources to support a transformation plan at State University Of New York Hospital at Brooklyn and/or the State University Health Science Center at Brooklyn.

The Capital Plan also includes projected grant disbursements from the existing $1.2 billion Capital Restructuring Financing program as well as Statewide Health Care Facility Transformation programs ($3.8 billion) and Kings County Transformation ($700 million).

The Capital Plan continues $355 million in additional health care capital funding re-appropriated from the SIA to support health care facility transformations. This builds on $1.6 billion in HEAL NY grants, which started in FY 2006. Including FY 2025 investments, health care providers will have received $9.5 billion in capital support over the last seventeen years.