The State recognizes the important role that the MTA plays in providing affordable, safe, lowcarbon transport to millions of New Yorkers every day. Accordingly, the FY 2025 Enacted Budget includes a 3-year authorization that permits the State to finance MTA assets up to 50 years, still decades short of the useful lives of many MTA assets. For example, the State has financed $2 billion for the East Side Access and Second Avenue Subway projects, which have useful lives of 70 years. This is the fourth consecutive year that the Legislature has worked with the Executive to pass legislation for this purpose and the first multi-year reauthorization. The legislation demonstrates the State's commitment to maintaining a fiscally responsible approach when financing MTA assets.

In FY 2022, the State made a policy shift to finance MTA assets directly because the MTA was not in a position to borrow funds in the municipal bond market during the pandemic. At the same time, the State had substantially increased its contribution to the MTA Capital Plan from less than $1 billion in the 2010-2014 Capital Plan to more than $9 billion for the 2015-2019 Capital Plan. These factors, coupled with the long useful lives of MTA projects, prompted the State to issue PIT and Sales Tax bonds with maturities of up to 40 years to fund its capital contributions for the MTA. The State expects to continue financing MTA assets through the issuance of PIT and Sales Tax bonds with maturities of up to 50 years, provided the useful lives of the assets being financed support it. This approach is reflected in the 5-year Capital Plan.