Factors affecting the State's financial condition are numerous and complex. This Capital Plan contains "forward-looking statements" relating to future results and economic performance as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Since many factors may materially affect fiscal and economic conditions in the State, the forecasts, projections, and estimates should not be regarded as a representation that actual results will not vary. The forward-looking statements contained herein are based on the State's expectations at the time they were prepared and are necessarily dependent upon assumptions, estimates, calculations and data that it believes are reasonable as of the date made, but that may be incorrect, incomplete or imprecise or not reflective of actual results. Forecasts, projections, and estimates are not intended as representations of fact or guarantees of results. The words "expects," "forecasts," "projects," "intends," "anticipates," "estimates," "calculates," "assumes" and analogous expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any such statements inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from projections. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic and business conditions; natural calamities; foreign hostilities or wars; domestic or foreign terrorism; changes in political, social, economic and environmental conditions, including climate change and extreme weather events; epidemics or pandemics; cybersecurity events; impediments to the implementation of gap-closing actions; regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations; litigation; Federal tax law changes; actions by the Federal government to reduce or disallow expected aid, including Federal aid authorized or appropriated by Congress, but subject to sequestration, administrative actions, or other actions that would reduce aid to the State; and various other events, conditions and circumstances. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond the control of the State. These forward-looking statements are based on the State's expectations as of the date of this Capital Plan.

The Capital Plan consists of six major sections as follows: