For nearly a decade, the State has been structuring its transactions, including those with MTA assets beyond 30 years, using a level debt service structure that aligns with the useful life of the assets being financed. The State consolidates the financing of its assets (e.g., buildings, roads, transit facilities) into one transaction and repays the debt service (principal and interest) in equal installments over the blended average useful life of the assets. This is with the guidelines set forth in the NYS Constitution (for General Obligation bonds), State law, and Federal tax law. This level debt structure ensures that the State pays debt back in a fair and timely manner, and applies the principle of generational equity, so that the significant costs incurred to build or reconstruct infrastructure are spread equitably over a time-frame associated with the assets' useful lives.

Since the State was first authorized to finance MTA assets for up to 50 years in FY 2022, the State has executed five bond transactions that contain long-lived MTA assets. In these transactions, the State issued a total of $3 billion for MTA purposes - of which approximately $1.5 billion included maturities between 31 and 40 years - in combination with other State projects which were financed with maturities of up to 30 years.

All of the transactions containing long-lived MTA assets were structured with level debt service that amortizes debt in equal annual installments, as depicted in the preceding chart. There is no "backloaded" debt service for any of the transactions containing MTA assets. Longer maturities for MTA assets in years 31-40 increase total debt service costs when the debt is repaid with interest but fairly align debt service costs with the generations that will benefit from the assets. In addition, there is a present value benefit of saving money in the early years (years: 1-30) before incurring higher costs later (years: 31-40).