## **General Obligation Bond Financing**

The State finances a portion of its capital projects with General Obligation Bonds. Over the Plan period, the State expects that $1.9 billion of General Obligation Bonds will be issued to fund projects authorized pursuant to the Smart Schools Bond Act, Rebuild and Renew New York Transportation Bond Act of 2005 and other transportation purposes, and the Clean Water, Clean Air and Green Jobs Environmental Bond Act of 2022 and other environmental bond acts.

General Obligation Bonds must be approved directly by the voters at a general election. Only one General Obligation offering, limited to a single work or purpose, may be voted on in a general election. General Obligation bond-financed spending accounts for approximately 2 percent of total spending over the Capital Plan. The Capital Plan assumes the continued implementation of ten previously authorized bond acts (five for transportation, four for environmental and recreational programs, and one for education), as well as spending for the $4.2 billion Clean Water, Clean Air, and Green Jobs Bond Act that was approved by voters in November 2022.

## **$^{ }$State and Federal PAYGO Sources and Uses**

State PAYGO resources include: taxes collected in the General Fund; other taxes and user fees set aside or dedicated for specific capital programs; repayments from local governments and public authorities for their share of projects; and transfers from other funds, including monetary settlements from the General Fund. Over the five-year Plan, State PAYGO resources are expected to support 29 percent of total spending. Federal PAYGO resources support spending financed by grants from the Federal Government, primarily for highways and bridges, drinking water and water pollution control facilities, public protection, and housing, and constitute 20 percent of total spending over the Capital Plan.

The DHBTF receives revenue from motor vehicle fees, the petroleum business tax, the motor fuel tax, the highway use tax, the auto rental tax, utilities taxes, and miscellaneous transportationrelated fees. Receipts deposited into the DHBTF are used to pay debt service on transportation bonds, finance capital projects on a PAYGO basis, and pay certain operating expenses of transportation agencies. A detailed accounting of the sources and uses of the DHBTF can be found in the "Detailed Data" section of the Capital Plan.

Capital spending supported by General Fund receipts is funded with a transfer to various capital projects funds. The General Fund is projected to transfer, on average, $3.1 billion annually over the Capital Plan period to finance capital spending on projects administered by DOT, OGS, HCR, DEC, OPRHP, DOCCS, the Department of Mental Hygiene, and other State agencies. Furthermore, the General Fund is expected to transfer an average of $276 million annually from FY 2025 to FY 2029 to the DHBTF. Capital transfers also include, on average, $341 million annually from the General Fund to the DIIF, of which $257 million is from extraordinary monetary settlements.