The Capital Plan continues to provide support for the SHIN-NY and APD programs, as well as other health care IT initiatives. This includes supplemental investments of $2.5 million in FY 2025 to support the SHIN-NY expansion. Additionally, the capital program supports maintenance and improvements of laboratories and institutions operated by DOH, and the Federal Safe Drinking Water Program. This includes an investment of $1.7 billion to reconstruct the Wadsworth Centers for Laboratories and Research, which is expected to break ground during FY 2025. The Capital Plan also continues $2 million in annual funding to support laboratory testing of drinking water in underserved and rural communities to combat emerging contaminants, otherwise known as "forever chemicals".

In addition to the ongoing $51.3 million in maintenance support provided to RPCI on an annual basis, the Capital Plan includes an investment of $4 million for RPCI to expand their existing mobile cancer screening efforts in western NY and establish mobile screening units specializing in breast and lung cancer. RPCI projects that the introduction of this unit will increase advanced screening in positive cases of breast cancer from 80% to 90% and from 37% to 60% for prostate cancer in these populations. It is also anticipated that the expansion of mobile screening efforts will reduce mortality from these cancers by 26 cases per year in Erie and Niagara Counties.

## **Health (Continued)**

The FY 2025 Enacted Budget also proposes a new $10 million investment under DOH for the purposes of providing safety and security grants for at risk reproductive health centers. This initiative would seek to build upon previous investments to combat anti-abortion violence and harassment, and ensure the continued ability of reproductive health centers to provide these services.

Overall, spending for health care capital is projected to increase by approximately $140 million from FY 2024 to FY 2025. This increase is primarily due to the new investments in RPCI mobile cancer screening and Safety and Security Grants for reproductive health providers, as well as an increase in disbursements related to the Statewide IV and V programs and WCLR reconstruction initiative.