 Lowering issuance costs for public authority bond sales that are subject to the BIC by reducing the BIC to pre-2002 levels of $3.50 per bond. Since its inception in 1989, the BIC has been raised three times to its current level of $8.40 per bond. State PIT and Sales Tax Revenue Bond issuances account for approximately two-thirds of BIC fees annually. The State can expect to save an estimated $3.6 million for every $1 billion in issuances. When applied to State issuances over the 5-Year Plan period, the BIC reduction is estimated to save $160 million in debt service costs. Additionally, eliminating BIC on refundings avoids charging BIC for bonds that already had BIC assessed.

 Authorizes short-term financing for liquidity purposes during the fiscal year. In doing so, it maintains a tool to help the State manage cashflow, if needed, and more effectively deploy resources. Specifically, the authorization allows for the issuance of up to $3 billion of PIT revenue anticipation notes which mature no later than March 31, 2025. Borrowed amounts cannot be extended or refinanced beyond the initial maturity. The Capital Plan does not assume the use of short-term financing for liquidity purposes. DOB evaluates cash results regularly and may adjust the use of notes based on liquidity needs, market considerations, and other factors.

 Amends the enabling statutes for the State's PIT and Sales Tax Revenue Bonds to authorize the redemption of such bonds if it provides a present value savings, as certified by a financial advisor. The requirement for present value savings provides an appropriate objective standard that is common in the municipal finance market.

## **Multi-Year Authorization to Finance MTA Assets Up To 50 Years**